\section{Impact}
Autonomous satellite swarm technology is essential to the future of
advanced space missions. Formation flight of small spacecraft offers
superior resilience and versatility as well as increased mission
capability at significantly lower cost. One of the primary weaknesses
of current formation flight missions is the need for satellite
instructions to be delivered and assessed from the ground, a process
that is resource intensive and becomes detrimental as missions take
place further from Earth. Trajectory planning and real-time control
algorithms allow large swarms of satellites to navigate autonomously
with respect to a target orbit, eliminating challenges associated with
ground station communication delays. This project would be the first
to demonstrate that such algorithms are feasible in practice. NASA has
exhibited strong interest in the following technologies which are
likely of primary concern to the DoD as well: collaborative mobility,
perception for autonomous systems, fault diagnosis and correction,
swarm navigation, and distributed aperture. Distributed aperture can
play a strong role in improving defense and surveillance through
higher resolution, cheaper, and more resilient Earth imaging
systems. Autonomous research on CubeSat swarms currently being
conducted at the University of Vermont overlaps with several
established institutions such as JPL, the Armstrong Flight Research
Center, and the Kennedy Space Center. 

Vermont CubeSat swarm research also serves to increase Vermont’s small
footprint in the space exploration industry. By way of joint research
capacity between UVM and VTC, with support from space mobility partner
Benchmark Space Systems, the project seeks to grow Vermont’s presence
in satellite research. In addition to impacting Vermont’s engineering
direction as a whole, the project directly influences the education of
students, both high school and university, who are involved in the
project. Through software and hardware training, educational resources
on orbital mechanics, propulsion, and smallsat development, the
project is setting the stage for a strong Vermont university space
program. Collaboration between IEEE and AIAA with continuous support
from Benchmark Space Systems will further establish this program.

Several novel technologies are being incorporated into the CubeSat
swarm with the primary goal of expanding the current capabilities of
1U CubeSats. One of the most impressive accomplishments will be the
inclusion of an inert non-toxic propellant thruster system developed
by Benchmark Space Systems with less than 0.5U volume. The thruster
will be capable of providing the necessary 20 N-s impulse and 40 m/s
delta-v dictated by the control algorithms while fully integrating
with the rest of the CubeSat. Such a system is significant, as
propulsion systems are not often seen in CubeSats of such small
size. This demonstration will prove the possibility of 1U propulsion
systems which will increase individual satellite capabilities from
detumble to station-keeping to orbital maneuvers. The other major
divergence from traditional CubeSat design is the incorporation of
PCB-integrated magnetorquers which will be traced out on three
orthogonal solar cell boards. Due to the volume constraint put on the
CubeSats by the propulsion system, the CubeSats must forgo the typical
magnetorquer rods. Preliminary research suggests PCB-printed boards
can be easily manufactured while providing adequate magnetic dipole
moments at higher efficiencies. Successful demonstration of PCB
magnetorquers would massively increase 1U CubeSat mission potential as
additional volume offers more space for scientific measurement
devices, power systems, ADCS, GPS and radio, or camera systems.
